

This model is from the article:  
**Asymmetric positive feedback loops reliably control biological responses**   
Alexander V Ratushny, Ramsey A Saleem, Katherine Sitko, Stephen A Ramsey &
John D Aitchison _Mol Syst Biol._ 2012 Apr 24;8:577.
[22531117](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22531117) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Positive feedback is a common mechanism enabling biological systems to respond
to stimuli in a switch-like manner. Such systems are often characterized by
the requisite formation of a heterodimer where only one of the pair is subject
to feedback. This ASymmetric Self-UpREgulation (ASSURE) motif is central to
many biological systems, including cholesterol homeostasis (LXRα/RXRα),
adipocyte differentiation (PPARγ/RXRα), development and differentiation
(RAR/RXR), myogenesis (MyoD/E12) and cellular antiviral defense (IRF3/IRF7).
To understand why this motif is so prevalent, we examined its properties in an
evolutionarily conserved transcriptional regulatory network in yeast
(Oaf1p/Pip2p). We demonstrate that the asymmetry in positive feedback confers
a competitive advantage and allows the system to robustly increase its
responsiveness while precisely tuning the response to a consistent level in
the presence of varying stimuli. This study reveals evolutionary advantages
for the ASSURE motif, and mechanisms for control, that are relevant to
pharmacologic intervention and synthetic biology applications.

  

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not.

  

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Novère N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

